# AI Policy

## Summary

Contributions generated by AI or with AI assistance are welcome, but strict rules apply.

These policies are _zero tolerance_ policies, meaning we reserve the right to
ban or otherwise remove from participation anyone caught breaking them.

- It is never acceptable to directly copy AI responses as if they were your own words!
  This differs from our policy on code contributions, which you accept full responsibility for.
- All work is the responsibility of the human who makes the PR. We do not accept AI as co-contributors on commits.
- All AI contributions must be _fully_ vetted by the submitter.
- AI can produce a lot of text. Just because you can write a 500 line GitHub issue does not mean our team has time to read it. Be prudent.
- We offer [guidelines and prompting advice](#guidelines) on how to most effectively use AI,
  but do not encourage or require its use. The tools you use are your own business.
- If the project you are contributing to has an AGENTS.md file, it is expected that you use it in your agent context. The presence of an
  AGENTS.md file does not explicitly condone or request AI usage.
- Security and vulnerability reports are special cases whereby an LLM must not be involved in essentially any way.

## Your Own Voice

Of all of the rules, this is the one that is most likely to get you banned for violating. One major exception
to this rule is that using LLMs to _translate_ is perfectly acceptable and welcome. We are an international
community and welcome all.

It is _never acceptable_ to copy the response of an LLM or AI tool and use it as if it were your own words.
It _is_ acceptable to link to an agent conversation, or to clearly annotate some piece of information
as generated by AI, but it is generally discouraged. _If we want to talk to an AI, we will ask them ourselves_.
We expect all interactions to be human interactions.

This applies to:

- Comments
- Pull Requests, excluding parts explicitly stated as LLM generated
- Issues, excluding parts explicitly stated as LLM generated

This does not apply to:

- Code
- Documentation
- Commit Messages

## Personal Responsibility

Any contributions made are yours and yours alone. You are accepting responsibility for them
by making a pull request or opening an issue. As such, we do not accept AI as co-contributors on commits.
In addition, it is unacceptable to submit un-reviewed AI code. All code, human-generated or otherwise must
be fully vetted and vouched for by you. If we detect that this is not the case, you may be banned. This
means there is an inherent risk to making AI generated PRs, as they may even be held to a _higher_ standard
than normal. Please keep this in mind.

## Spam

While spam in _any_ form is unacceptable, it can be very easy to _accidentally_ spam with AI. AI tools can
generate massive amounts of text and code. Remember that humans have to _read_ what you are generating.
Less is more.

When opening GitHub issues, for example, AI often generates overly long-winded and assumption-filled issues and proposals.
Stick to the essential and verifiable information only. See the [guidelines](#guidelines) below for
advice on prompting your agent if you _must_ use one to generate an issue or proposal description.

## Security & Vulnerability Reports

Security & vulnerability reports are a special case to this policy because of their increased demand for urgent attention from our team.
These issues/reports must be reproduced, written, verified, and analysed by a human being. We simply cannot allow there to be a machine-to-team
pipeline for high-priority security-related issues.

## Guidelines

- If you are making pull requests, make _the smallest reasonable pull request possible_. This is true regardless of
  AI usage, but especially necessary to keep in mind in the context of AI, otherwise you risk overloading our team.
- When opening an issue, provide the [appropriate issue template](https://github.com/beam-bots/.github/tree/main/.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE) to your agent.
- When opening a pull request, provide the [pull request template](https://github.com/beam-bots/.github/blob/main/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md) to your agent.
- When in doubt, copy this entire document into your prompt and ask the agent what you should do.
- If the project you are contributing to has an AGENTS.md file, it is expected that you use it in your agent context.
- Encourage agents to be *as concise as possible* and *not to make any assumptions*.

## Derivative Works

Anyone is free to copy and/or adapt this in any way. This policy is adapted from
[Ash's AI Policy](https://github.com/ash-project/.github/blob/main/AI_POLICY.md).
